A system consists of the following: a set of entities (including people); a set of activities; a description of the relationship between entities and activities; and a definition of the boundary of the system.

Systems Engineering includes the typical engineering techniques concerned with analysis, design, construction and testing of an engineering product; but it also includes management topics such as project organization, planning, scheduling and tracking, estimating, and team management.

Examples of Systems:

Reckefeller Center -NYC
Polaris Submarine System

What is Software Engineering?:


A commonly stated goal of software engineering is to deliver quality software, on time, and within budget.

The key goal should be to economically build something reliable.

Software Engineering is Computer Science for the real world.


Software system testing typically finds 25 defects per 1000 lines of code.
On average, software projects overrun their original cost estimates by 189%.
On average, the time overrun for software projects is 222% of the original time.

Difficulties in Software Development:
	1. Essence - inherent software difficulties
	2. Accidents - non-essential software difficulties

What is Software Quality?:

Three Quality Dimensions
	1. Quality of the product
	2. Quality of the process
	3. Quality related to business environment 

Software Quality Characteristics:

Reliability - provides the services expected by the users in a correct and consistent manner

Efficiency - does not waste computer resources (space and time)

Maintainability - easy to modify

Usability - offers appropriate user interfaces and external documentation 

Three Categories of Software Issues:

	1. Product Issues
		a. Difficulty meeting the product goals
	2. People Issues
		a. Customer, developer, and end user have different product views/needs
		b. Difficulties with effective team creation and coordination
	3. Process Issues
		a. Difficulties with identifying , measuring, and managing progress and risks
		
